[DRAFT] ERC-4902: Decentralized Autonomous Access (DAA) (#4902)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-4902.md

---
eip: 4902
title: Decentralized Autonomous Access (DAA)

> description: DAAs represent an access over digital or physical things & resources, with the ability to connect with entities that seeking to use it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: DAAs represent access to digital or physical things, with the ability to connect with entities seeking to use them
```
grammar errors

author: <Daniel @eartho-group>

> discussions-to: https://github.com/ethereum/eips/issues/4902

Reviewer: Please open a thread on eth magicians for this proposal. This is a requirement to merge to draft.

status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-03-22
requires: 20
---

> ## Abstract

Reviewer: Abstract should be relatively short, maybe 1 paragraph.

Reviewer 2: its really important to me be able to deliver the concept. how do you suggest to do so without the background?

Reviewer 3: Abstract should be a high level human readable description of the specification.

Motivation should describe *why* this EIP is a good idea, but it doesn't need to be exhaustive.

Specification should only describe the specification itself, not its reasoning/motivation.

Rationale should describe why you made specific decisions within the specification (like why a particular value was chosen).

----

Something to keep in mind, EIPs are specifications, they are not meant to be exhaustive documents on a particular topic.  If you want to discuss a lot about the background, reasoning, history, etc. you should put that in a blog, website, docs site, etc. and leave the EIP just as the specification.

> As humans, we are constantly seeking as much access to resources as possible, We also make access trades for our needs regularly, it can be for information, food, rides, content, hotels, jobs, and so on. The trade could be as simple as me looking for access to food and the other side looking for access to money.

Reviewer: Several grammar errors here. Also, please do not use first or second person pronouns in EIP text.

Reviewer 2: im not a native speaker, i used serval tools but its probably still not perfect. maybe you can give it your touch

"Guy wakes up in the morning to go to work, he looks for an access to ride for work, and when he arrives at work, the doors open for him because he has access to the offices. He is compensated for sharing his access to his time and knowledge by receiving a salary. He was looking for an access to food around noon. After work, he goes to see a friend by an access to a scooter that he rents on the street by the hour. They watch content that they have access to at his friend's house, and then they play a game with a new skin that they have access to for a year."

## Motivation
Because ownership is based on social consensus and relies on a third party to record and enforce it, it is nearly impossible to transition from the current economy to the web3 world, because that data cannot be shared and cannot be on-chain.

By changing our mindset from myth of “ownership, control, assets” to “access”, We are able to eliminate several issues such as the need for trust on the old registrations and records of the institutions.

Trading access is a convenient and cost-effective way to use resources without the financial, emotional, oracle issues, or social burdens that come with ownership.

> ## Specification

Reviewer: Please use markdown code blocks for code sections of the spec.

     * */
    function trust(uint256 accessId, address account) external returns (bool);

    /**
    * Closing the connection for 'account' with the DAA
    * */
    function close(uint256 accessId, address account) external returns (bool);

## Rationale
Its the very first draft.
There is consideration to split this into proof, trust , access instead of being in one contract.
For me its more a philosfical considoration that im wondering if an access can be represented without this things based on "An access emerges from the abilities of actors to benefit from ‘things’."
I hope people will help me to achieve that conclusions in the future. 

## Backwards Compatibility
There is some desire to made it possible to take existing ERC-721 tokens and made them an access too.

## Test Cases
Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for EIPs that are affecting consensus changes.  If the test suite is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/eip-####/`.

## Reference Implementation
In private repo for now, so will be open

## Security Considerations
Every action should be accepted by the actors.

## Copyright

> Eartho Group, Daniel, Tel Aviv

Reviewer: The copyright must be CC0 as specified in EIP-1. Please review EIP-1 for the exact text.
